So, this is how I like to come into my
my deadlifts and my squats. I like to
get into the deadlift where the first
weight on the bar for Kyle, we're just
doing plates at a time, right? So, I
like to come to the first plate, which
is going to be 60 kg, and he just picks
it up like it's nothing, like it's
equivalent to an empty barbell. And
we'll do that uh you know, every set
moving up.
>> Next, let's talk technique with Kyle. So
some of the things if you followed what
we were doing with Kyle, Kyle is
extremely explosive, you know,
weightlifters are very very powerful.
They are fast and that was one of the
things that I considered to be a
negative with his deadlift technique.
And now I want to add a little bit of
context to this because a lot of people
get confused and they say things like
why do you want him to be slow and all
these things. It's like I don't want him
to be slow. I want him to be precise.
Slow is smooth. smooth is fast. Now, I'm
going to upset a few people. I first
learned that on Conor McGregor. He had a
tattoo on his arm. Slow, smooth, smooth
is fast. I don't know the exact origin,
who said it first or whatever, but it
absolutely applies here. Uh if you have
a look at Thor Bjönson, that's something
that I've definitely like he and I both
really agree on. This is smooth is
stronger, right? So, if you have a look
at the way that he moves, I've had
people come to me and they say, "Why do
you teach me to go slow?" It's like,
mate, he deadlifts 1,000 lbs faster than
anyone in the world, right? Make no
mistake, it's not slow. His warm-ups
aren't fast. What a lot of people do
with their warm-ups is they just rip it
off the ground with the speed intent. I
disagree because you got not going to
max out with that fast speed. Max
deadlifts are never fast. So, the way
that I like to teach it is to put the
amount of load that's necessary to stand
with intent. So, don't explode just cuz
it's 60 kg.
>> Um, take your shoes off, Kyle.
Do you have a belt today?
>> Yeah. Yeah. I'll just use my little
>> Use your weight if you want.
>> My cute little weight. Great. Great.
Great.
>> You know, if you've been following me, a
lot of people say, "Why do you do the
belt like that?" It's like, well, it's
just comfortable for me. You know, I
have no rule uh with the belt. My
actually the rule is whatever you feel
the most support from. So, we tried with
Kyle ages ago, um the high belt
position, and he said it was
uncomfortable compared to his way. So,
it's like, good, I want you to use the
strong way. I don't have an ego that
says, "No, it's my way of the highway."
I want the strong way, which for him,
>> Yeah.
>> It's uh this $20 bill,
>> $20 piece of string.
>> Very good. Love it.
>> Yeah. Easy.
>> All right. So, let's go. So, let's have
a look at what I was talking about with
his technique. Right. So,
>> our last heavy session, he sent me a
video doing 270 for a triple. Yep. And
if you understand our progression, we
started with pause deficit deadlifts to
teach him to be more precise off the
ground instead of ripping it off the
ground. So that technique is grip and
rip, which is what I would consider how
he used to be. Grip and rip, which is
effective to a degree, but I just
believe precision
wins. Precision beats power. That is
something that I got from Conor McGregor
for sure. It's actually crazy because
ever since you said that, I've been
doing that in my cleans where I've
actually been taking a bit longer to set
up and it's actually been a lot better.
So, I've already implemented that
strategy into my Olympic lifting and
I've actually seen a big improvement.
So,
>> you know what's funny?
>> I was thinking I don't want to step out
of my lane and say you should try that
on your weightlifting. I just thought,
you know what, I'll see if it carries
over.
>> I just wanted to try it and like I've
cleaned 200 kilos four times last week
with really good technique. Probably the
best I've done it before. So,
>> how good is that precision? There we go.
So, and so that's my opinion. My humble
opinion on weightlifting as a
non-weightlifter is this would
definitely carry over to any sport where
you have to lift weights.
>> Precision beats power, right? I'm not
saying go slow. I'm saying master the
precision first. That's all I'm saying.
So, when he sent me the video of his
270, give me a set of um give me a set
of five.
>> Yep.
>> Before I continue to talk.
Good.
Good. Let's go a little bit faster.
Don't I don't want to hear the noise.
Smooth. There we go. Good. Not that
noise. That noise is fine. I mean, if
you're on context, I mean the noise of
when you haven't taken the slack out of
the bar. When you rip it off the ground,
you hear this. Yeah. You hear?
>> Yes.
>> I don't want to hear that. I want to
take it off like this.
>> Yes.
>> It's out and then
>> Yeah.
>> So, you don't hear it come off the
ground.
>> So, that's the noise that I don't want
to hear.
>> So, when I hear him bang it off the
ground, it's like, okay,
>> 60 kilos, it really doesn't matter. But
300 kg, if you're out of position and
you try and rip it off the floor while
you're out of position, it'll negatively
impact the strength of the deadlift. So,
this is what I want to ingrain from the
absolute first set. What I might even
also do, uh, chill for a little bit,
have a minute or so.
>> Slap your belt on for this next set.
Okay. Oh, yeah. And then the next thing
is you're going to use straps, too.
>> Yes.
>> Let's start using the straps from now.
>> Start mimicking what we're going to do.
>> Exactly.
>> Not because he needs it, but because
we're practicing exactly what he's going
to do when he tries for his top set.
>> 100%. I should show you actually those
videos of the cleans I did this week.
>> I would love to see that. I would love
to see that and I know that
>> get that on the recording. I know you
guys would love to see that as well.
>> So this was we go out here.
Uh where was it?
>> You can see here
>> setting the position a bit more holding
the slack then going. Whereas before, so
I'll go back. Before I would just sort
of rip and grip, set and go.
>> And it's probably the nicest 200 I've
done. And that's that was a 20
>> that's 200 is it?
>> 205 last week. set the position.
>> Go. Whereas before I just sort of like
ripped it a bit more.
>> So I've already seen like a huge
improvement. So it works, you know.
>> Nice. 205. Clean. When was that?
>> Sorry.
>> When was that?
>> Uh last week.
>> Thursday.
>> Okay.
>> So what are we? We're Monday. So that
was 4 days ago. Uh this is an
interesting one. So So Kyle is used to
huge volume. Uh and he came in. He's
like, "Yeah, I'm fresh." I'm like,
"Okay, cool. So yesterday was Sunday.
Did you do anything?
>> Yeah, 150 snatch.
>> Yeah, I just did a 150 snatch and
>> 185 clean j 195 clean.
>> So he goes, "Yeah, so easy session." So
I'm I'm relaxed like Okay. If you say
that's
>> maybe powerlifting context, fair enough.
If you say that's easier, then that's
easier.
>> Yeah,
>> we'll see.
>> we'll see. For a proper comp for a D lo,
I would probably recommend
>> to have a
>> a day off before a max attempt. But it
doesn't really matter. Like this isn't a
competition. Just if this goes up today
like we planned with that, I imagine if
we don't do that and I take your advice
and we do a proper preparation, I think
we we've got it.
>> Proper prep, proper dload.
>> Yeah. All right, let's have a look. I
still want smooth, but I do want you to
add a little bit of speed to that.
Right. So, take the slack out and then
stand like it's an empty barbell. Slack,
stretch, stand. Perfect. That's exactly
what I'm after. You see that?
Such a nerd. I am just when I see
something that's so perfect. It's just
like it's like I just won a lottery.
>> Yeah. And that slack cue just it's
starting to click now. I've had a solid
8 weeks to practice that. It actually
clicks now. Cool.
>> H chill. Take a minute off or so.
>> Yeah. As the weights go on, like Kyle,
he's a strong guy. We know the numbers
300. A lot of people say things like,
uh, what are the percentages for
warm-ups? I would say a lot of the
percentages that people teach, in my
experience, are wrong. Some models that
I've heard before is people say things
like, you know, you do your first
warm-up set on 50% of your top set. And
it's like, you know, I know that Kyle
that means he's going to come in and do
150 kilograms on his first set. Of
course, he can,
>> but it it won't feel good,
>> you know. So, for me, it's not a
percentage. It's a
>> it's the first plate, whatever those
increments are. And then we consider for
Kyle, what's a logical incremental
increase all the way? 40 kilo jumps for
Kyle is probably appropriate for a 300
kg deadlift.
>> But then as we get closer, like we'll
see. Uh we might even last time we did
it, we did um uh plates up until I think
>> 220, we did 250, 280, and then we did
>> we did 300. So
>> So we did we did 40 kilo jumps and then
we did a 30 kilo jump, 30 kilo jump, 20
kilo jump. So we'll see. We might do
that today or we might just go blue
plates all the way. You know what I
mean? Yeah. I feel for sure. I do the
same in my Olympic lifting. I don't go,
"Oh, the percentage here is 152.5 kg.
I'm going to do that." It's just No,
just blue, blue, blue, blue.
>> Convenient plates. Yeah, cuz it looks
good.
>> Convenient plates.
>> Two reps, coach.
>> Two rep uh two reps on this one and then
we're going to do singles all the way
up.
>> All right.
>> All right. Let's go. Have you got your
belt on?
>> Yes.
>> Good. I'm sneaky under the shirt.
>> Good. Good. Okay. Slack out.
Ah. So good. One more slack out.
Beautiful.
>> Beautiful.
>> Lovely looking deadlift we have here.
>> Yeah. So,
>> hey bro, how are you?
>> Still nice to meet you. So, therefore,
we can still go uh another 40 kg jump.
Very good. His program to teach him how
to not rip the bar off the ground was
pause deficit deadlifts. And his first
session was around 200 kg. And I said
the goal is to get a double on 260. um
which he did really really nicely. So he
did that nice and smoothly. Then it was
a phase of just straight up heavy
deadlifts with three heavy deadlift
sessions. He sent me the video of his
270. We'll put it here. Um 270
deadlifts. It was really nice, but it
was too nice.
>> Yeah, I was focusing too much on that
precision, that nice smooth pull. And
then Bass was like, "Well, you got to
put like actually put a bit into it
though." And I'm like, "Ah." So I think
I was going to be confused with like
>> Not really. Not really. I wasn't clear
with the instructions. Cool. We've got
the smoothness now. And then you did it
smooth where it was just like too too
polite. I like to say
>> the first two felt really good, but that
third one I definitely could have
actually put a bit into it cuz it
shifted me a little bit. Yeah. So
>> So the idea and people say things like,
you know, why are you telling people not
to be fast? Like no, I'm saying master
the precision before we add the speed.
So he mastered the precision. Now it's
now it's another learning. So he's still
not at his best. He's still learning as
we're going. So now the objective of
today compared to last session is be
smooth and be explosive. Okay.
>> All right. 180. We're going singles now.
Okay.
It's like out. No shrugging. Stretch.
Beautiful.
Oh yeah. Very good. Very good. Nice. All
right. 220.
Next. We got 220.
Small shrug.
>> Oh yeah. Yeah. I forgot over
exaggerated.
>> But I was very I was just looking and I
just came in with a celebration just
going, "Oh, that was perfect." And then
I saw the shrug and I was like, "Yes."
And then I saw the shrug. I was like,
>> cuz I think my instinct is like when
it's I want to speed it up. It's just
for me it's
>> pull back fish under in the clean. So
it's like speed for 12 years. It just
been that it's like it can still stay
there. Just
>> I get you. No, I I'm so happy with that.
I'm very happy with this. Now, I I think
we had a winning formula with that warm
up, which was 250, 280, 300.
>> Let's do that again.
>> Yeah.
>> Yeah. I I think so. I think we do that
again.
>> So, I want to load the plates now. I
want you to rest.
>> I want you to
>> Now, let's get focused.
>> Okay. Because I want the 250 to be that
fast and the 280
>> and the 300. All right. So, you chill.
You want to slap on some tunes while we
do these big ones?
>> Let's do it.
>> Yeah.
>> Yeah. Sorry YouTube.
>> We have to mute this.
>> We have to mute when we're taking the
lift seriously. What song, brother?
>> Vibing a bit of Dr. Dre. Maybe
>> Slack.
>> Oh, yeah.
>> I think he's stronger today than he was
the first time he uh
>> No, it's that slack. It makes sense now.
Like it actually feels so much easier.
>> I actually put like speed into that
though with the precision.
>> Took the slack out and then you whacked
it.
>> Yeah. You just for like a quarter of a
second fast. Yeah.
>> Yep.
>> Take the slack out then whack it.
>> Yeah. Cool. But I'll tell you now, my
prediction is your technique, if you
continue to deadlift, is just going to
continue to refine and you bring on your
own things like
>> um you know, some people like I still
think and I like it when people do a
very nice precise dynamic start.
>> Yeah.
>> Um I would like that. Yeah.
>> Yeah. It's and it's beautiful when it's
precise. And then some people like me
are just still and I slack out and go.
Thor Bjönson rolls it in. Rolls it in.
>> He goes like this. He's here and then he
goes he goes he rolls sits as he's
rolling it's on the shin slack out and
just stands and it's like
>> but it works. It's so smooth.
>> You got to get it right.
>> So you you know although that's not what
I teach. I'm not going to say hey bro
you're doing it wrong. You know it's got
to that point where it's like cool.
You've mastered the precision. Now you
do what fits
>> your style you know.
>> Yeah. Okay. Sweet.
>> I felt good man.
>> So we're going to go uh 280 next.
>> Yeah. That was um that was beautiful.
Yeah, that felt nice.
>> So, here's the next thing as well with
rep work. It's another technique that I
teach with rep work
>> is to
kind of not like the first rep's going
to be hard.
>> You got to commit to the second rep
immediately. It's not a touch and go.
>> You go you go like this. The way that I
like to teach it is you go whack, you
know, and that'll be overwhelming cuz
300 kilos is heavy. You you're on. You
don't change your mind. You don't change
your thought process. It's the set.
We're still in it. Drop. Sit. Boom.
>> Yeah.
>> Not bounce.
>> But don't drop it and then go.
>> I got to I got to recycle myself up for
that. Now, I've noticed that with a lot
of like cuz I've been consuming a lot
more powerlifting videos, especially
with the deadlifting. After that first
rep, you know, it's the setup and then
straight into that second one. It's just
go just go straight away.
>> Yeah. So, this the the second rep
>> is kind of is just part of it. Do not
switch off. Do not change it. Don't
think about, "Dan, that was hard. I
wonder how this is going to be."
Irrelevant.
>> Yep.
>> Irrelevant. You got to go. You've
committed.
>> What I like to say is do not think about
it
>> while you're going. Do not think.
>> You think about it here.
>> Yeah.
>> Or while you're sitting there. You think
about, okay, that first rep is going to
be hard. And I keep going and I know
that's what's that's going to feel like.
And then you hear
>> [__] time to switch off. No more
thinking. And it's just going. It's the
same in weightlifting. It's the exact
same principles. Yeah. Yeah. 100%.
>> Talk about queuing. I say like warming
up. Lot of cues when it's go time. Not a
single intelligent word comes out of my
mouth.
>> I love that.
>> You know what I mean?
>> Completely agree.
>> [__] go. You can't.
>> Yeah. [__] know.
>> [__] do it.
>> Yeah. Nothing intelligent, please. And
thank you.
>> On 28.
>> Yeah.
300 or two doesn't mean anything in
terms of your strength level.
>> Um,
you know, I don't really do much of the
percentage thing. Uh, but if I was to do
a percentage thing, I'd like to say your
two rep max is 4% less than your one rep
max. So, what's 4%? That's 12 kg. Uh,
that means your one rep max, two reps of
300 is technically only 312 kg. But
so you want to chart for one rep max
calculators. So your one rep max is 100.
Your two rep max is 4% less than that.
Your three rep max is 4% less than that.
Four rep max is 4% less than that. Five
rep max. So one rep max is 100. Two reps
is 96. 92 88 84. So your five rep max is
84%. So but I don't look at the
percentages the same way. I'm
anticipating that this is 300 for a
double with repetitions in reserve.
Right. But then when we go for the 320,
of course I want repetitions in reserve,
but I'm anticipating that 300 could be
limit. Could be at 9.9 RP or 10 RP.
>> That'll be lovely.
That'll be lovely. Next tune. Any
special requests?
>> I'll just chuck the same one on, but
I'll leave Venom for the top for the top
one. Venom's.
>> Yeah. Sweet. And
Nice. Nice.
>> All right.
>> It was [__] strong. Now, I'll tell
you now, there was a lot more aggression
there and it was a little bit more
>> choppy, but at the same time, this is
what I'm looking at now. It's like, I
don't want you to think anything
different now for this next set.
>> It's time. It's go time. Y,
>> you know what I mean? So, sometimes I
get to these top sets, it's like, all
right, I'll bring it to your attention.
That was just a little bit at the same
time comparing this 280 to when you did
it the first time.
>> Y
>> way better.
>> Okay.
>> Way stronger. It was just like, that's
[__] good. And the next thing I look
at is, does that look like you can do
300 for two? My answer is yes.
>> So, therefore, nothing more to be said.
Done.
>> Right.
>> Good. So, I'm going to give you 8
minutes.
>> Yeah.
>> All right, Kyle.
>> Sounds good.
>> So, in that time, what I'm not going to
do is talk to him about anything else.
>> Yeah, I'm just going to zone out and do
it.
>> Good time to zone out. Not starting any
new combos.
That's just me. People might think I'm
uptight, but I just said that I don't
like to talk about things and I want him
to zone out. But one thing I am going to
say, Kyle, is this. And this isn't just
a normal thing. This is my platform is
kind of bouncy and it might bounce a
little bit to the side. Uh this is
pretty important for anyone. I've torn
my hamstring like this. Um I I picked it
up and bang and the b the bar bounced a
little bit to the side and then I just
with the aggression with the feedback I
gave you just pick it up, drop, pick it
up, drop. I picked it up an inch to the
side,
right? and it tore my hamstring because
most of the load was on the left hand
side of my body and I picked it up and I
tore my left hamstring. So the correct
thing to do is if it does bounce to the
side, move your feet, get back into the
center of the bar, right? That's all.
That's all. So if that happens to you
and you're doing the aggressive thing
and the bar if if it ever comes to that
point where you're doing aggressive
deadlifts and you're just picking it up
and bouncing it and the bar is bouncing,
bouncing, bouncing to the side, move
your feet. Be in the center. If you're
not in the center under heavy loads,
that's when [__] goes wrong.
Let's
go.
You're okay.
>> Grind anywhere but a [__] deadlift.
>> Yeah. [__]
>> Which is why I don't teach a fast
deadlift.
>> Yeah.
>> Do you know what I'm saying? It's never
fast. It's [__] slow. And that's why
when you're used to just explode,
explode, the moment it just slows down,
you just go, "What the fuck?" Drop.
>> Do you know what I mean? So, so like I
just played it back and I saw the first
rep and I look at the first rep, I'm
like, "Yes, you have the second rep.
Drop, sit, drive." You know,
>> but I watched you in the middle of that
in the second rep going,
>> "Let's think about this." You know what
I mean?
>> I I saw that hesitation in between and I
was like,
>> first I'm like, "Fuck, that was actually
pretty heavy." Like, yeah. Correct.
>> Yeah,
>> it is heavy. That's that's what we're
lifting at 300. You know what I mean?
But it doesn't mean you can't do it.
>> No%.
>> So that's um something where it's just
like no, I don't want to push past it.
You probably did the right thing by not
stopping. If it was a competition, I
know you wouldn't have stopped.
>> And I and I bet you you'd have got it.
>> You know what I mean? But it's not a
competition. It's not worth doing that,
>> you know? And and what could have been
the consequence if you did keep on
going?
>> I don't want to know.
>> Yeah.
>> It could have been something. So, you
know,
>> that's part of it is is is feeling
[__] like
>> Yeah, it's [__] heavy.
>> It slows down.
>> What does it feel like? Like compared to
weight,
>> it's so different. Did Did that hurt at
all?
>> Did that hurt at all?
>> No. Like it was putting a lot of
pressure on my back. My back was flexing
a lot and I'm not used to that. It like
>> I tried to push through for a little bit
and then it just felt really scary so I
just dropped it. Yeah. I don't know. I
just
>> No. Fair enough. You did the right
thing, bro. I I know that feeling and
I've grown through round back [__]
lifts before and and you get better at
it with more exposure to it.
>> I guess I just like Yeah. I just didn't
know how to grind. Eh, cuz like you
said, it's like everything in
weightlifting, we just move with as much
speed as possible and then when we stop
that, it's just really hard to emulate
it. Yeah, 100%.
>> Yeah.
>> [__]
>> Yeah. Honestly, like I'm happy that I
got the first one. It moved a lot better
than the first time I did it. And that
second one it was just yeah just grind.
Hey I just I just don't know how to
grind it just really weird.
>> And even though the first one moved
better it's still that's I could tell
with the way that you reset on the
second rep. Let's let's have a look. The
way you reset on the second rep was like
that was where you were second guessing
>> 100%.
>> And you can't second guess when when
it's max lifting. But it doesn't matter
at the same time. You know what I mean?
Cuz we're just at the [__] gym.
>> And I don't want you [__] injuring
yourself here. I don't want the [__]
that we do here to get in the way with
what you are [__] best at.
>> Yep.
>> Is that playing good?
>> Like it's actually good, bro. And then a
lot of thinking.
>> You know what I mean?
>> I just went back. Yeah. I didn't pull
the slack. I just sort of Yeah.
>> Yeah. It was just straight into rip.
>> Yeah.
>> Well, let's have a look at the head
down. Boom.
>> Yep.
>> So, the f the first one. Let's see.
>> Yep. Not bad. Yeah.
>> Better than the first 300 that you did.
>> Yeah. There was no slack. It just sort
of I think Yeah, cuz it just felt so
heavy. And then also, you said before
going into that second one, you don't
want to be thinking too much. You just
want to kind of go into it. So, I think
I took that a bit too far and didn't
actually prioritize technique.
>> Yeah, definitely.
>> Then it's like, yeah, I don't know.
Like, should have I stopped for a
second? But then it's like, that's more
hesitation. You know what I mean? Just
>> Yeah,
>> that's all right.
>> No, I'm not I'm not upset. Like, I'm
happy. Yeah. I I still think 320 is
there. I just need a
>> Yeah, I I do as well. It's a frustrating
feeling.
>> The thought of doing a 300 double is
like I I don't know. I was like a 310 or
315 seems more
>> way easier. I don't know. That's I don't
know if that's normal, but like a 300
double it is.
>> Yeah. To me, that's like 300 double's
crazy. Like Yeah.
>> Yeah. I even said that this morning to
ear on the way. I was like I mean 310
would be easier.
>> You'd rather do 310 for single?
>> Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. But no, I was open to
trying it out. It's unfamiliar
territory.
>> Yeah. Yeah. Yeah.
>> It's all unfamiliar territory.
>> Yep.
>> 310 would have come up as well.
>> Yeah.
>> That's all right.
>> All good. We move.
>> Yeah. No stress.
>> It's the [__] I I know. It's the
shittest feeling. But I know what you
mean. Like
>> it's like everyone's disappointed.
>> No, no, no one is. No, no one is at all.
No one is at all.
>> Like it's the everyone knows what that
feels like. That's what it like.
>> Yeah. Yeah.
>> For me, I I'll tell you what I'm like.
I'm like, "Please, no one talk to me
now."
>> Yeah. I'm like,
>> "Yeah." Okay, good.
>> Like like I said, I I don't give a [__]
like post this. It's good for people to
see.
>> We get there. It's like just so that you
know,
>> it wasn't a smooth swat race. It wasn't
It wasn't a straight line to get here.
>> 100%.
>> We went from um Yeah. From these weeks,
up weeks, low weeks, and everything in
between.
>> Yeah.
>> My initial instinct was like, "Fuck, I
honestly after the first rep, I was
like, I just felt like the second one
was going to be hard." So, I was
definitely second guessing cuz I said to
myself,
>> [__] maybe I should just leave it here
and go three. So, he's going to get in
his head and he's going to do all of the
right things. We're going to put on his
own music and all of that. And in the
background, I'm going to try and fill
you guys in on what's happening.
We're going to start with 70 kg and I'll
get him to do five reps of this.
Good.
Perfect.
Good. Very good.
Very good. Chill. Yep. So, we'll go for
now. We'll probably go one plate, one
plate before we get to So, that'll be 70
kg, 110 kg, and then three plates will
be 150 kg. I reckon we can go to 190 and
maybe even 230. We'll go we'll go
plates. So that'll be five total plates
on each side before we then start
reducing the incremental increases and
start going maybe 230, 250, 270, 290,
310.
>> Let's do that. One thing that I'm
noticing, Kyle, is it's a funny thing,
but the sequence of locking the knees
out. Yep.
>> It's very simultaneous with you.
>> In deadlifting, the knees must go first.
>> Okay.
>> So that's something that I even noticed.
like everything looks really beautiful
up until we get to the 300s.
>> Your lock out is kind of a bit of
>> Yeah, you're right.
>> Like it's it's called ramping in in
powerlifting.
>> So, what you need to do is lock the
knees before we push the hips through.
That's the sequence. So, what you're
doing is kind of like it's kind of like
it's unnoticeable with the light weight,
but it's noticeable when it gets to the
300 plus. So, what I want you Exactly.
Lock the knees hard, then drive the hips
through. It's just like it's fractional.
It's pop, pop, pop, pop. And I want to
see your [__] quads locked hard at
that lockout. Okay. When your knees are
soft, what happens is you end up
>> locking out like that. So, we need a
lock out to be completely vertical.
>> If I did that for that second on 300, I
probably would have got past that
sticking point,
>> maybe. Yeah. Yeah. You slam. So, that's
what actually happens when people are
getting there. They go [__] they
start dragging it. It's like, no, lock
the knees. And then you
>> How do I say it? That's exactly what
when I was obviously I'm not a
powerlifting coach, but just reflecting
on that video, I was like, that's I know
that's what I did wrong. I remember
Sebastian was saying, I got to lock the
knees. I locked the knees and I didn't
do that. Interesting.
>> Okay, let's do it. Good. All right,
let's go. I want five reps. Take your
time for each one. Five smooth, perfect
reps. Take the slack out. So, figure out
where the eyes are going to be. They
stay there every time. Slack out. Stand.
Lock the knee. And perfect.
Sequence. Sequence. Knees. Hips. Good.
Stretch knees, hips. Yes.
>> Oh, [__] That's different.
Stretch knees, hips for one more. This
is perfect. This is perfect. Stretch,
knees, hips. Yeah, bro. Okay,
>> take a seat, please. Chill. All right.
The the thing with with coaching that
makes it hard is I want to ingrain this.
Now, this is only 110. you're going to
hear me say all of these cues and speak
to him like this, but then when it comes
to the heavyweight, I can't speak to him
because that's when it's kind of like
hopefully we've turned that into
autopilot. Uh for me to give him cues at
the top weight, it's just going to be a
distraction. So,
that looked perfect. Kyle is a elite
athlete and understands technique, but
like anybody when it comes to just,
okay, now it's time to just switch off
and just go for it. Hopefully, all of
those cues have been ingrained. But, you
know, how do we ingrain this whole new
technique on someone who's been doing
weightlifting for over a decade? How
long have you been doing weightlifting?
>> 11 years.
>> 11 years, you know.
>> Yeah.
>> Yeah. I know I should just be focusing
and stuff, but I just had to say
>> when you're locking the knees like that,
>> it just goes against everything I know
in weight. So, I think that's why it's
so I don't want to do it. Like, I'm used
to knees out,
>> drag, drag, drag, drag, drag, hips
coming through.
>> I don't that
>> but that it just feels so
>> But it makes sense. I love that. So,
this is a difference another difference
between a clean and and a deadlift.
>> Yeah.
>> Right. So that's exactly what's
happening with his lockout is he's he's
I tried to do with the 300 is like I
thought I could pull out and brush brush
brush brush cuz that's what I do in my
stash and my cleanings. I drag drag
drag. But you're you're just in
autopilot. You're doing what you've done
a 100,000 times in training.
>> Yeah.
>> It like I don't blame you, you know.
>> Yeah. Yeah.
>> Um but either way, [__] If we can
differentiate between the two, it'll be
great. No need to switch on yet.
Okay. Stretch.
Stand knees. Hips. Good. Two more.
Stretch.
Good. Give me that distinct stretch.
Stretch first then drive. Stretch then
drive. Good. Nice.
>> Just rush that.
>> So, a common question that I get is,
"What do you mean by stretch?" So,
stretch means to me take the slack out
of the bar. So rather than just coming
in and just going from here and boom and
ripping it off the ground, which is some
people's strategy, and it can work for
some people, mine is to take the slack
out of the bar by stretching. So you're
grabbing onto the bar, the arms are
relaxed, and you're reaching the crown
of the head to the ceiling. The way that
I like to say is imagine someone's
grabbing you by the head and just
picking you up. That's the feeling.
You're elongating your spine, and you
should feel tension or a stretch through
the arms. Another thing that you may see
is the bar slightly bending before we
stand. So there must be that level of
tension and that's how you take the
slack out of the bar. So here's the cues
that I give. Of course we're at the
point where I'm saying stretch then go.
But the cues that I give to take the
slack out of the bar is reach down
armpits to pelvis crown of the head to
the ceiling. So when you combine those
three cues, you take the slack out of
the bar. So let's do it again. So
reaching down. So instead of just having
the arms passively relaxed, which is
something that I do as well, but when
people don't understand the concept of
that, I I teach them actively reach
down. So reach down, armpits to pelvis,
his lats, and then reach the crown of
the head to the ceiling. When you're in
that position, the slack will be taken
out of the bar. There will be full
tension through your entire body. And
then from that position, push the world
away with max intent. Um, we're going to
do 190. I would say I want Kyle to do
two reps on this. We'll do two and then
we'll go 111.
>> What's that?
>> Based on his 300.
>> Yeah.
>> What are your goals?
>> Based on his 300. So, we attempted We'll
play it. We'll show it. He came in and
the goal was to get a 300 for a double
and he missed the second rep, but we
compared the first time he did the 300
to the second time he did it. And not
only was he in a fatigue state to do it
the second time when he missed the the
double, but it was a lot faster. So,
he's definitely stronger,
you know. And then to say he's
definitely stronger, I don't want to
discredit how strong this guy came in
here on day one. He was already strong.
All we're doing is channeling the
technique and giving him the skill of
doing a deadlift. That's all. So, you
know, athletes never hold their peak
strength all year round. You cannot,
right? So him at his peak, he's not
peaking yet. So well, your best clean
and jerk is what?
>> Uh 205 kg.
>> So you're kind of around there
>> at the moment
>> for weightlifting numbers. Yeah. Yeah.
Yeah. Yeah. Pretty close.
>> But I would say you're still not even
peaked.
>> No. No.
>> So you're just now your your base level
is just stronger at the moment that you
could probably do 200 kg.
>> And I guess pulling the Olympic lifts
back a bit for the last couple weeks cuz
I wanted to come in here has actually
made me feel a bit fresher.
>> Yeah. So, okay, from today, if I said to
you, I would like for you to compete.
You need to guarantee me a 200 kilo
clean and jerk. How many weeks would you
like?
>> 3 weeks.
>> Yeah. Right. So, the level that you're
at currently is is pretty high.
>> Three to four weeks.
>> But technically, he is not peaking,
right? So, like Thor doing the 515 kg
deadlift, his last session was 485, not
peaked. 2 weeks later he will be peaked.
And that's going to include a whole
bunch of reducing the hell out of the
volume that he's doing so that he's a
lot fresher. So he's less fatigued, we
should say. Right now we're going to do
doubles. So 190 for two. And then the
next one we'll start doing singles.
Stretch.
Good. Good.
Hard lock of the knees. Stretch.
Perfect. Good job. Excellent. Okay, take
a seat. Chill. We go heavier.
So, Must is giving us a nice compliment.
Giving Kyle a nice compliment.
>> Oh, positivity is good. I like it.
>> It is good. Saying, "Wow, this is
looking nice." I'll tell you how my mind
works when I'm doing these things. And
I'm certain that Kyle will be the same.
He's very appreciative and all of that
stuff, but I'm certain that he's be
[__] better be nice. Like, that's
only 190. That's what he just said. I
can clean and joke that. So, if you were
to ask me and I'm doing this and said,
"How does it feel?" I'd be like, I don't
know yet. Like, these are weights that
need to be nice. I reckon you're going
to know when we get to, you know, you're
getting closer and closer. So, this next
weight is 230 kg. I would say,
yeah, we might start kind of feeling it,
but it's going to be 270. 270 and plus
where we're going to look at it and go,
okay, we know at this point,
>> so from now, it better damn well look
nice. If it doesn't, then it's just not
your day. But that's not what's going to
happen. But I'll also get the timer out
after this as well and start going from
2:30 to 250. We'll go 5 minutes.
>> Okay.
>> Double this.
>> Single. Single. Single.
>> Okay. Okay.
>> Five reps. Trips.
>> Yeah. Just five. Give me 10 reps on
this.
>> I wouldn't even blink an eye. I wouldn't
even blink.
>> Fair enough. That's what we have to do.
That's what we have to do.
>> It's good. It's good to kind of just
have just come in and just have that
mindset. Just like tell me what to do.
I'm just going to do that.
>> Yeah. takes the stress out of it. But
no,
>> I think like yeah, being coachable is a
big thing these days, you know, like
just
>> I have so much respect for you. I know
what you've done. I know what you've
done at your coaching end and yourself
as an athlete. I'm just going to shut
the [__] up and listen. That's it on
touch and go deadlifting. Like there's
so many people said to me with a 300,
dude, if you just controlled it down,
tapped it lightly, and came you probably
would like I don't know, is that
cheating? Is that like sumo?
>> Not not really. It definitely makes it
easier. It's a strategy within itself.
And I'll tell you now, like it can work,
you know, and for a gym lift, it' count.
You did 300 kilos for a double.
>> No one's gonna say, yeah,
>> no one's gonna say, oh, it doesn't
count. It's like it doesn't count anyway
because there's training. Correct. It
doesn't count. Thank you for noticing.
Um, but if I said to you, let's do a
touchandgo rep from here. You'd be like,
holy [__] we haven't warmed up that
way. So, what a lot of people do is
like, I've made that mistake and I've
gone with people like and and you'll
give them the queue at the top set and
you touch and go, touch. IT'S LIKE,
"FUCK, I'VE BEEN RESETTING my whole way
up here."
>> And then they do it from the first one.
>> You have to time it. It's still It's
another skill, right? You have to time
the oscillation and the whip of the
>> B. But yeah, touch and go. What's my
thoughts on that? It's It's a technique.
We can use it.
>> Um, we're not going to use that today
cuz we're only doing a single.
>> All right,
>> one rep.
Very
>> good, bro.
>> Is that all right with the knees? Now we
can start saying that looks good. Okay,
so that moved.
>> It didn't really feel much different to
be honest.
>> No, it didn't look much different to the
190. The knees make a big difference.
Yeah. The tense, the quads.
>> Good.
>> Yep.
>> The slack. I feel like I'm pulling the
slack. Okay. Maybe a bit more crown to
ceiling. Maybe
>> you exaggerate knees locking up.
>> I'm so scared to do that cuz I'm scared
there's going to be resistance. I'm
scared if I go too quick it'll come out
of
>> Exactly. Is that Is that true?
>> Yeah, it is. It is very true. Well, what
will happen if you do it too quick is
your hips will end up up too high
>> cuz whenever I'm pulling whether it's
weightlifting dead I'm just thinking
someone's here staring at the side and
I'm I'm scared if I go quick it's going
to come out momentum
>> what what would happen if you if you
lock too quickly your ass would come up
in the airact and then you'd be RDLing
>> it got to be smooth so we don't want to
do that so this is where
>> from a coaching standpoint I can't sit
here and nitpick the [__] out of you at
this point you know what I mean it's
just like cool you get the rules and you
are locking it out hard at the top.
Okay,
>> which is what I want. You're not
finishing like this.
>> I wasn't doing that before.
>> You're finishing but with a hard lock
out.
>> One thing that I'm going to show you,
right? And I don't want to [__] with
you,
>> but if you have a look, you can see the
bar up here. It kind of comes up and
then down. That means there's still a
bit of shrug happening.
>> Yeah. [__]
>> Okay. So,
>> [__]
>> So, watch.
>> Watch this. I haven't seen the replay,
but I did.
>> Yes.
>> You can see it with the bar. I
>> think I'm getting a little bit confused
with the knees. Yeah.
>> The instinct is just to pull up.
>> It slides up then down.
>> Ah, I see. I see. Okay.
>> Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah.
>> Okay. So, you're doing So, what you've
got to So, this is where I the cue of
reach reach. Reach down. Reach.
>> Yeah. Keep it. Keep it down.
>> So, you're not using your truck to do
any of this.
>> Yeah.
>> That's the last time I say that.
>> Yeah. Done. Done.
>> If the next set you do it,
>> no, it won't happen. [__] so be it.
No, it won't happen.
>> Okay, cool. Something that I've learned
is in training, I would rather
underachieve and walk out knowing you
could have done more
>> than [__] go overshoot it and walk
out and regret life for the next month.
>> And that's even
>> I know that's all athletes.
>> You miss a lift and it's just like you
have a nice smile on your face depending
on the person. That's how Kyle was. But
I know mate, you go home and you're
pissed off at everything for a while. I
think it's like the people pleaser in
me. Like I was pissed off myself, but I
was more pissed off that I disappointed
you.
>> No, no, I know what it's about.
>> I know how hard you work, man. It never
disappoints me. But I get it.
>> I totally get it.
>> So, here's the thing with incremental
increases on a warm-up.
>> Um, I could very easily say that was
just 230 and it was so comfortable. I
know that he'd comfortably get 270, but
there's still I'm still kind of and I
said this is the last time I say it. I'm
still kind of introducing cues. So the
cue that I introduced to Kyle is I saw
just a little bit of shrug. So what I'm
looking at is the barbell kind of went
up then down. So that suggests that he's
not reaching down um as hard. So for me
to expect him to act on that queue with
a 40 kg jump, it's it's quite unlikely.
That's why from now it's like okay small
queue let's do a gradual incremental
increase right so this is where if you
want to implement a new queue or
whatever um don't expect that it's going
to happen with a big incremental jump
right now either way I don't know what
the if you'll correct the technique or
not it's still 20 kilogram jump it's
still heavy and if it doesn't get it
perfectly it's not a deal breaker those
are the little cues those are the like
the 1enters
It's not a deal breaker. One rep.
>> Strong brother.
Very good. Very good. Okay.
Next up, uh 270.
270. It's looking as it should.
Something that I know a lot of people
ask, why drop it from here? Um let's
talk about training etiquette and gym
etiquette and all that. Dropping, do you
drop it? Does it count? Or all those
things. In a powerlifting competition,
you've got to lower the weight down
under control. I say it's a controlled
drop. So, no one really maxes out and
lowers it slowly. You got to drop it
with your hands still on the bus. So
they're kind of all pretty much letting
go, but the hands are still on the bar.
Now, in training, what I like to say is
we want to maximize stimulus and
minimize fatigue. Now, one rep max
deadlifting, unfortunately, it's not
hugely stimulating, but it is quite
fatiguing. So, what I like to do is
minimize whatever level of fatigue that
we can by doing things like letting go
at the top. That excludes the eccentric
portion. If he included the eccentric
portion,
you know, we're talking millimeters
here, but it's going to be a little bit
more fatiguing. Now, ever heard of the
saying, don't try this at home? Well,
kind of. See this gym here? It's a
platform. It's a weightlifting platform.
In weightlifting, they dump it from up
here. If he's got 200 kilos clean and
jerk, he's not going to bring it down to
his chest and lower it under control.
He's going to go from here. Boom. Right?
So, if some of you guys see a drop like
that and get offended, it's like, well,
this is a gym that's designed for this
specifically. Now, you go to a
commercial gym and do that, you're
probably going to get a whole bunch of
people complain uh and and kind of name
call and all of those things, time and
place. But that's why, you know, it kind
of pays to if you're a strength athlete
and you take it seriously to train at a
strength facility and that's what most
people do. Not a lot of highly, you
know, competitive strength athletes
train at commercial gyms for that
reason. People don't like it. They don't
like the chalk. They don't like the
psychop. I don't know. Some people do. I
do.
But for the purpose of this, we're
allowing drops. If you want to say it
doesn't count, I know it doesn't count
because it's a training. It's a training
lift, right? So, next lift is going to
be 270. We have three lifts to go.
310.
>> Yeah, let's let's um be diligent. Let's
have another minute. Let's let's have
another minute for now and then after
this we're going to be strict. 5 minutes
>> and then actually after the 290
>> I'm going to make you do seven minutes.
Okay.
>> Okay. So 5 minutes leading up to it.
Yep.
Jesus.
Excellent.
>> Looking as it should. Very good.
>> Very good.
>> 270.
Last warm up coming up next. We got two
more sets today.
[__] music. Hey, it's like a lot of
the times I'm kind of like I'm
organizing and it's like [__] The
moment he goes in, oh [__] the song
just ended and he's it's 310 coming up.
Time to [__] and just relax now. So,
here's a few things that I like to do um
when I'm working with people is drop the
heart rate and working with myself is
drop the heart rate right now. I need
focus, but not hyperfocus or hyper
arousal where your heart rate is through
the roof because that is exhausting. So,
I need Kyle, which I don't need to even
tell him about this because he's an
elite athlete and he knows this himself,
to keep his mind on the task at hand,
but also to just relax. And then as he's
coming in, we're going to switch on the
music probably about a minute out. And
that's what's going to start getting his
heart rate up and getting him excited
and and in the right frame of mind uh to
pick up this 310 easier than we saw that
300. That's the objective.
Talcum powder. So what's the objective
here with talcum powder is when the bar
gets he's got big legs, right? So it's
going to touch his thighs at that point
which is going to increase friction. So
talcum powder especially as he warms up
he's getting sweatier and sometimes the
bar can stick here which is an extremely
frustrating feeling. So uh it's a very
common practice in high level
deadlifting competitions that people put
talcum powder on the front of their
thighs
and that's the reason why not to be
mistaken for chalk. So chalk is one
thing that's grip. Talcum powder is
another thing that is slip. So I see a
lot of people in their early days in
powerlifting or whatever and they're
putting chalk on their thighs cuz they
see all the strong guys with the white
stuff on their thighs like yeah
different white stuff that's talc
powder. Uh the next thing is be careful
with this. So sometimes you can get on
your feet. Don't step on the talcum
powder because then you'll slip, right?
And you know I've got Kyle to not touch
his thighs because if he touches his
thighs that's slip on his hands. He
wants grip on his hands. Anyway, there's
your talcum powder tutorial for today.
Hope you enjoyed that.
>> Uh, what's the song?
>> Uh, rap god.
>> Rap god.
>> Sweet.
>> Put on 2 minute if that's all right.
>> Yeah.
>> In 2 minutes. Did you say just put it at
the 2minut mark cuz I'll let it play
out.
>> No. All good. All good.
>> Thanks, bro. DJ maners. Same [__]
technique. Let's [__] get it. Let's
go.
Yeah. [__] yeah. That's how we shrug it
up. THAT'S HOW WE [__] IT UP.
>> Oh my god. Oh my god.
Yes.
>> Yes.
>> Love that.
>> So good.
>> Yeah. All right.
>> Mission accomplished.
>> Maybe not.
>> See the need for talcum powder. Uh even
then you had the um
>> the shorts on
sometimes. Did Did it feel like it got a
little bit stuck on the shorts?
>> Tiny bit.
>> Yeah. I think that the I was like I was
not going to let go of that [__]
though.
>> Especially after the last last time.
>> You're like just keep [__] going.
>> Don't you [__] stop.
>> Let's have a look at that.
>> Oh yeah.
>> Oh yeah. You like the song? Yeah.
[__] strong. Look at that. Look at
that bar bending in your hands. That's a
lot of weight on the barbell there.
310 plus strugg
310 strokes. I reckon you'll feel it in
your traps tomorrow.
>> Yes.
>> But yeah, I feel now. [__] it, bro.
>> I think that was four four reps.
>> Yeah,
>> four reps.
>> Get four to do that with 55.
>> Yeah. Good.
>> Oh [__] man. Thank you. [__]
>> Now, dude, here's here's the story. Now,
what do we do after a one rep max
attempt? I'll tell you what I like to do
whenever I'm writing a program where we
do something like this. I just say take
your gains and get out of here. You know
what I mean? Like right now I I'll tell
you in my experience how I reckon he'd
be feeling. It's called an adrenaline
dump. You know what I mean? So you have
so much energy that he just put into
that. Like you saw him running around
afterwards like a freaking bull, bro.
You know what I mean? Like he's going
nuts because that's how he's feeling
during the entire lift and it's still
going. There's like the the before it
it's like locking in and like 8 minutes
of just I don't even remember anything.
I'm just completely present. I'm staring
down at the floor. Nothing in life
matters but that you know just
>> it's funny how you say that. I don't
remember anything like a common thing
when when people say like what's going
through your head at that m moment
people like like nothing like nothing.
You know what I mean? Um but yeah that's
um that is a big max effort. Now, how's
that going to affect him moving forward?
Like, I would say tomorrow I I don't
know what his plan is, but I'd say
tomorrow, take a day off, Kyle.
>> All right, coach.
>> You know, like a week or
>> Yeah. But but this is where it's it's
pretty damn fatiguing. Deadlifts are
pretty fatiguing. And my strategy
whenever I'm coaching highle deadlifters
is to pretty much do kind of a highlevel
deadlift every Fortnite only, not max
out every second every single week. And
it depends on the level of strength. For
him, he's under 90 kg. Um, what's the
maths on that? 3 point something times
body weightight deadlift.
>> 88 88.5 this morning.
>> Where's where's my calculator? We'll
we'll do the exact maths, but you know,
that's people ask me a question, you
know, cuz quite often I say, when you're
lifting heavy weights, that's when we
have to change the rules. The stronger
you get, the longer the recovery. And
then someone this morning asked a
question, define heavy. It's like, is
there a ratio? like is there
>> the the rules change as you get heavier
because you know there's different
formulas. So in weightlifting you got
Sinclair
>> dots in that as well.
>> Dots
>> all of those different things. I don't
really care for that. I look at absolute
load. You know if you're um 50 kg
deadlifting 150 kg that's triple body
weight which is excellent but it's just
not as fatiguing as a 100 kg lifter
doing 300.
>> Yeah.
>> Absolute load matters. So for you, we've
gone absolutely
>> 310 /8
equals that's 3.52 * 3 and 1 half times
body weight deadlift.
>> Y
>> like let's add more context or
perspective to this. Thor Bjönson isn't
going to do triple body weight to get
more than anyone else.
>> There's a bit different with it's it's a
lot different, but that's where the
rules change.
>> The pound-for-pound game suits the
lighter lifter
>> always, right? So as as you get heavier
>> um you know so to say triple body weight
is when I start to say you need more
recovery. Well no if you're a 50 kg
lifter. So I quite often work with my
little sister-in-law Diny J. She's 52 kg
and she does you know a little bit over
triple body weightight deadlift but she
can do that consecutive weeks.
>> Wow.
>> Whereas now we're talking double that
weight even though you know you're
>> well I'm twice the size. You're not
quite twice the size. You're smaller
than that which is even more impressive.
It's um the absolute load that matters.
So now we're at the level where 310 kgs
that is going to be fatiguing. What's
the strategy moving forward? I I reckon
we reassess. So I don't just have to say
oh let's just wait two more weeks and
just keep going up up up up. I would say
let's objectively say that was max
effort. So you don't just keep on
pushing and just keep on moving forward.
Like it's like okay cool. We've ticked
off that box. Now, let's come back and
do some more ground work, some more base
building. So, we did a phase of pause
deficit deadlifts to to add 10 kilograms
on.
>> So, what's it going to take to add the
next 10 10 kg while he's training nine
times a week,
>> right?
>> So, I would say let's choose another
strategy where we come back again and do
an accessory deadlift like maybe a
snatch grip
>> like that has carryover to what you're
doing for sure. Snatch grip forces you
to use lighter weights. It's still very
stimulating, but whatever allows you to,
you know, get max kind of like training
stimulation with lighter loads is
actually easier to recover from,
>> right? So, when we do a snatch grip
deadlift, you'll probably be working
with like we'll probably get you 160,
170, 180, you know, up to 200 snatch
grip deadlifts, which is hard for a
snatch grip, but objectively it's only
2/3 or you know, we'll start with half
of what you just did now. You know what
I mean?
>> It reduces the load significant.
>> But the the goal now is walk out of
here, go and celebrate, go and have
lunch and uh and your job is done,
brother. Thanks, bro.
>> Your job is done.
>> No, it was good, man. I really
appreciate the help. Obviously, the last
three weeks like that.
>> Yeah. I don't know. I love it.
>> No, it's crazy. Yeah, definitely give me
ideas. Maybe maybe go bit more
commitment to this. Do
>> you know what he said before? He was
talking about doing things like low bar
squats.
>> Yeah.
>> I I reckon um slowly slowly I want to
be, you know, twisting his arm and
convincing him to to
>> come to the dark side, try some
powerlifting, uh you know, cheat squats
>> and and see how he goes with that. So,
that's something that we could be able
to negotiate moving forward. But
otherwise, Kyle, where do we find you?
>> Instagram, Kyle Bruce 89. My business
uplift. Gym as well. And uh
>> we'll put all of those links in the
description for the video. Go give him a
follow and watch his journey.
>> He's remember he's not a powerlifter.
His goal is he's Australia's number one
weightlifter. His goal is to keep on
pushing that.
>> Um what's your best weight lift? 200 165
kg snatch and a 205 kg uh cleon jerk
high bar back squat 271 kg and now a 310
kilo deadlift
>> now a 310 kg deadlift what about the
bench
>> love that one bench we don't talk about
the bench we don't talk about the bench
but yeah he's a super strong dude and
there's tons to learn from someone like
him especially if your goal is
weightlifting you know times when people
say ask me for weightlifting advice I
got to be honest I'd say hey go to him
don't come to me I don't know how to do
it I I'll get you strong for sure
weightlifting is a skill and this guy
has what it takes for that skill.
>> Thanks so much, bro. Appreciate that.
>> Um, hope you enjoyed that. That's, you
know, behind the scenes of a max
deadlift,
>> uh, and what goes on to get someone from
300 kg to 310 kg. From a percentage
standpoint, it's not a huge percent, but
the stronger you get, the law of
diminishing returns applies. You got to
work when you first start, you work this
hard for this much results. Uh, and then
when you get elite, you work this hard
for this much results. So, uh, we're at
the hard end. And that's probably why
most people quit, I reckon, for sure.
>> Cuz it's like you got to put in so much
work and you get not much out of it.
>> Yeah. Like doing the 300 first with
minimal trading and just the technical
changes we made was cool. But I I felt
like that was definitely maximal. And I
was actually a bit
>> I don't I think I was a bit I was a bit
skeptical that maybe doing deadlifting
once a week would that really make that
much of a difference but deficit pause
work and adding all that stuff like man
I can't complain far out 10 kills that's
huge like in someone who's been strength
training for as long as I have like [__]
I'll take I'll take my tea and have my
coffee that doesn't make sense
>> law of diminishing return that doesn't
make sense but I thought it sounded
funny at the time
>> bro fall down
I love that
>> tea and coffee what
>> yeah I thought I thought I thought it
was funny at the time Sorry guys to
disappoint.
>> But yeah, hope you enjoyed it. I'll see
you guys next time.